---
title: Bitcoin Momentum Strategy
layout: default
permalink: /projects/bitcoin_momentum/
---

## Project Overview

### **Problem Statement**

In the volatile world of cryptocurrency trading, capturing significant price movements during a bull market can lead to substantial profits. However, the challenge lies in developing a strategy that can effectively identify and act on these movements while managing risk. This project aims to address this problem by creating an automated trading bot that leverages technical analysis to capture big movements in a Bitcoin bull market.

<br>
## **Approach**


### Set Strategy Rules:
<details>
<summary><strong>Click here to view the strategy rules</strong></summary>
<div>
<br>
    <p><strong>Determine Upward Trend:</strong><br>Identify an upward trend by checking if the closing price is above a moving average (e.g., EMA).</p>
    <p><strong>Check for Bearish Volatility:</strong><br>Ensure there is no bearish volatility by analyzing the ATR indicators.</p>
    <p><strong>Entry Signal:</strong><br>Generate an entry signal if there is an upward trend and no bearish volatility.</p>
    <p><strong>Exit Signal:</strong><br>Implement a trailing stop-loss to generate an exit signal and protect profits.</p>
    <p><strong>Tight Trailing Stop:</strong><br>Apply a tight trailing stop when in trade and bearish volatility is detected.</p>
    <br>
    <p><strong>Idea for this strategy is from "Zen and the Art of Trading".</strong></p>
</div>
</details>
<br>

### **[Data Collection](/projects/bitcoin_momentum/data_collection)**
- fetch historical price data from the KuCoin exchange using their API.

### **[Signal Generation](/projects/bitcoin_momentum/signal_gen)**

- Using indicator values to generate signals that will be used for backtesting.

### **[Data Preparation](/projects/bitcoin_momentum/data_prep)**

- This step prepares the data by reshaping and aligning it to ensure compatibility between price and indicator datasets for further analysis.


### **[Backtesting and Visualization](/projects/bitcoin_momentum/backtest)**

- We backtest the strategy using the collected data and the vectorbt library. We visualize the data to point out possible strengths and weaknesses in the strategy.




<!-- This section describes the execution phase of the trading bot. It explains how the bot operates in real-time to monitor the market, calculate indicators, generate signals, and execute trades based on the predefined strategy. -->

<!--
## Execution

Finally, we deploy the trading bot to execute trades in real-time. The bot continuously monitors the market, calculates indicators, generates signals, and executes trades based on the predefined strategy. -->

